CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to spowtd

Thank you for your interest in contributing!

This project uses a hybrid build system: **Meson** for compilation and **cibuildwheel**
for distribution.

## Development environment

Work on the Cython extensions requires a C compiler and the Meson build system.

### 1. System Dependencies
* **C compiler:** `gcc` or `clang`
* **Build tools:** `ninja-build`, `pkg-config`
* **Libraries and headers:** `gsl`, `flexiblas`, `openblas` or `blas`

### 2. Python Environment
A virtual environment and a "no-build-isolation" editable install is recommended. This
way, changes to `.py` files have immediate effect, and `.pyx` files are recompiled.

```console
# Create and activate a virtualenv
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install development dependencies
pip install meson-python meson ninja cython pytest pylint numpy PyYAML

meson setup build

# Install spowtd in editable mode
pip install --no-build-isolation -e .
```

## Working with Cython

When you modify a .pyx or .c file, you must trigger a rebuild with
```console
pip install --no-build-isolation -e .
```
If the interface to the function has changed, the interface (.pyi) file needs to be
updated to match.

*Annotations*: Use `cython -a spowtd/foo.pyx` to generate an HTML file showing which
lines of code are interacting with the Python interpreter (yellow highlights). Aim for
white lines in performance-critical loops.

*Header files*: If adding a new C function, declare it in a .pxd file.

When new modules are added, they need to be added to `python_sources` (pure Python
package files), `test_sources` (test scripts), or as new `py.extension_module`s
in `src/spowtd/meson.build`.

## Testing
Tests require `pylint` and `pytest`.  You may additionally want `python3-coverage` and
`python3-pytest-cov`.

To test, run:
```console
meson compile -C build
meson test -C build
```

For convenient test-driven development, a sequence like this works well:
```console
pip install --no-build-isolation -e . --quiet && \
meson setup --reconfigure build && \
meson compile -C build && ]
meson test -C build -v --num-processes 1 --no-rebuild --print-errorlogs
```

By default, `meson test` both checks for errors with `pylint -E` and
runs tests with `pytest`.  The linting step can be run alone with
`meson test --suite lint`, and linting can be skipped with
`meson test --no-suite lint`.


## Pull requests

Before submitting a pull request, please ensure:

1. Code is tested: Any bug fix or new functionality is tested.  Check with `pytest-3
   --cov=spowtd` and `coverage3 html`.  Aim for coverage of 80% or better.

2. Tests pass: pytest shows no errors.

3. Linting: `pylint-3 spowtd` shows no errors or new style complaints.

4. Documentation: Any new features include updates to `doc/user_guide.pdf` or the man
   page if necessary.

5. Git Tracking: You have `git add`-ed any new files. Meson will not include untracked
   files in the build.
   
6. Continuous integration: If `cibuildwheel` fails on any platform, check the logs for
   compiler-specific warnings or missing header errors.

## Docs

Rebuilding the docs requires:
 - asciidoc
 - pdflatex
 - python3-scons


## Distribution

To generate the distributable files manually:
```console
python -m build
```

Note that meson-python only includes files tracked by Git.  New content will need to be
added with `git add` to be included in the package.

Commit message:

Update cibuildwheel directives for spline extension

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to spowtd

Thank you for your interest in contributing!

This project uses a hybrid build system: **Meson** for compilation and **cibuildwheel**
for distribution.

## Development environment

Work on the Cython extensions requires a C compiler and the Meson build system.

### 1. System Dependencies
* **C compiler:** `gcc` or `clang`
* **Build tools:** `ninja-build`, `pkg-config`
* **Libraries and headers:** `gsl`, `flexiblas`, `openblas` or `blas`

### 2. Python Environment
A virtual environment and a "no-build-isolation" editable install is recommended. This
way, changes to `.py` files have immediate effect, and `.pyx` files are recompiled.

```console
# Create and activate a virtualenv
python -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install development dependencies
pip install meson-python meson ninja cython pytest pylint numpy PyYAML psutil

meson setup build

# Install spowtd in editable mode
pip install --no-build-isolation -e .
```

## Working with Cython

When you modify a .pyx or .c file, you must trigger a rebuild with
```console
pip install --no-build-isolation -e .
```
If the Python interface of the module has changed, the interface (.pyi) file needs
to be updated to match; refer to [PEP 484](https://peps.python.org/pep-0484/) and
[the typing guide to writing stubs](https://typing.python.org/en/latest/guides/writing_stubs.html)
for details.

*Annotations*: Use `cython -a spowtd/foo.pyx` to generate an HTML file showing which
lines of code are interacting with the Python interpreter (yellow highlights). Aim for
white lines in performance-critical loops.

*Header files*: If adding a new C function, declare it in a .pxd file.

When new modules are added, they need to be added to `python_sources` (pure Python
package files), `test_sources` (test scripts), or as new `py.extension_module`s
in `src/spowtd/meson.build`.

If new library dependencies are added to `meson.build`, in most cases it is
appropriate to continue even if the library is not found (for example:
`dependency('foo', required: false)`) so that a sdist build can be completed without
the binary build dependencies.

## Testing
Tests require `pylint` and `pytest`.  You may additionally want `python3-coverage` and
`python3-pytest-cov`.

To test, run:
```console
meson compile -C build
meson test -C build
```

For convenient test-driven development, a sequence like this works well:
```console
pip install --no-build-isolation -e . --quiet && \
meson setup --reconfigure build && \
meson compile -C build && ]
meson test -C build -v --num-processes 1 --no-rebuild --print-errorlogs
```

By default, `meson test` both checks for errors with `pylint -E` and
runs tests with `pytest`.  The linting step can be run alone with
`meson test --suite lint`, and linting can be skipped with
`meson test --no-suite lint`.

## GitHub Actions

Build of wheels by [cibuildwheel](https://github.com/pypa/cibuildwheel) is configured in
`pyproject.toml` and `.github/workflows/wheels.yml`.
[Options](https://cibuildwheel.pypa.io/en/stable/options/) in this file override what is
in `pyproject.toml`.  Try to set variables in `pyproject.toml` to describe the
requirements for builds as broadly as possible, and limit `wheels.yml` to just
configuring the GitHub Action jobs.

## Pull requests

Before submitting a pull request, please ensure:

1. Code is tested: Any bug fix or new functionality is tested.  Check with `pytest-3
   --cov=spowtd` and `coverage3 html`.  Aim for coverage of 80% or better.

2. Tests pass: pytest shows no errors.

3. Linting: `pylint-3 spowtd` shows no errors or new style complaints.

4. Documentation: Any new features include updates to `doc/user_guide.pdf` or the man
   page if necessary.

5. Git Tracking: You have `git add`-ed any new files. Meson will not include untracked
   files in the build.

6. Continuous integration: If `cibuildwheel` fails on any platform, check the logs for
   compiler-specific warnings or missing header errors.

## Docs

Rebuilding the docs requires:
 - asciidoc
 - pdflatex
 - python3-scons


## Distribution

To generate the distributable files manually:
```console
python -m build
```

Note that meson-python only includes files tracked by Git.  New content will need to be
added with `git add` to be included in the package.
